<h1>James Bridle - <i>New Dark Age</i></h1>

>The emphasis on the work required to make information useful has been lost over years, aided by processing power and machine intelligence, to be replaced by pure speculation

As much as I agree that there are *plenty* of issues with the way our society currently deals with data, I do think that it holds immense power to improve our lives as a species and as an integrated system with the nature surrounding us. However, as with most new things, it seems we've lost focus and what's important. We think we are <i>so</i> busy with made up problems and deadlines, that we can't possibly take the time to think about what all this information actually means and what answers it could potentially present to us as a society. The current setup, where actions that bring profit, are the only ones worth considering, have lead us to a reality, where more time is invested in online marketing than space or ocean exploration. With all the tools we've built, it's so unfortunate that they are used to encourage genocide to solidify power, influence consumer behavior to make profit, or spread fake information, once again, to make profit or solidify power.

On another note, now, that we have these powerful machines, that can perform a task in mere seconds, whereas it would have taken a person years to do it, we have forgotten what it means to put in work, take time to do things, or to be thorough with tasks, instead of just automating everything and always getting things done faster, but not always better (half-baked aka 'uninspired, done only pro forma, and suited only to temporarily patching a problem that needs much more effort to repair').

> Even a realistic accounting of data/ oil is insufficient in its analogous power, for it might give us false hope of a peaceful transfer to an information-free economy. Oil is, despite everything, defined by its exhaustibility.

An interesting comment, because I'm not sure we should strive to transfer away from an information-free economy. We should definitely move to the next stage of dealing with information, but, just because, we haven't figured out how to deal with data ethically and effectively yet, doesn't mean we should abandon it. It's not the data that's <i>polluting</i> our environment and society, it's the way we use and abuse it.

> The network is only the latest, but certainly the most advanced, civilization-scale tool for introspection our species has built thus far.

I think I kind of hinted at my own perspective on big data and dealing with it in the previous answers, but I do not believe that gathering and analyzing data is inherently bad. I just think we're in the beginning stages of understanding how to properly deal with data and to make sure we use the data to help us build better societies, instead of emphasizing existing problems. Technology, and our ability for the FIRST TIME EVER to look at our own species from the perspective of a computer is a very powerful idea. It's such an exciting possibility!!! What a time to be alive and see it develop before our eyes! (I'm getting a little too excited) but imagine, being able to improve our ability to use this tool for introspection for collective development instead of individual solidification of power or profit gain; what an incredible step forward it would be for humanity. And I truly think that learning how to deal with data and algorithms and learning to deal with the overflow of information could be as powerful as other historical discoveries that changed the path of human civilization. It's probably been said before, but maybe we could be living through a data renaissance? If the book describes the dark ages, it's probably about time to move onto our own data renaissance. 
